# vfe-toymc
Toy MC to study VFE pulse shapes.


A set of examples for standalone.
It is a toy Monte Carlo for simulation and reconstruction of pulses.
All files here are for VFE scenario: CRRC 43ns pulse shaping
It is defined in Pulse.h

Example01
---------

Produces a file with information about pulse shape.  The output is a
root file with TGraph (pulse shape) and 3 parameters to describe the
tail of the pulse shape.

File data/EmptyFileCRRC43.root was produced with this example. It
corresponds to CRRC pulse shaper with tau=43ns. This file is a
starting point. This example is for info only. It does not need to be
repeated for CRRC 43ns shaper.

Similar files for other configurations has been produced:
data/EmptyFileCRRC10.root    CRRC tau=10 ns
data/EmptyFileCRRC20.root    CRRC tau=20 ns
data/EmptyFileCRRC30.root    CRRC tau=30 ns
data/EmptyFileCRRC43.root    CRRC tau=43 ns
data/EmptyFileCRRC60.root    CRRC tau=60 ns
data/EmptyFileCRRC90.root    CRRC tau=90 ns
data/EmptyFileQIE25.root    Charge integration with gate 25 ns
data/EmptyFileQIE12.root    Charge integration with gate 12 ns
data/EmptyFileQIE6.root     Charge integration with gate 6 ns



Example02
---------

Produces waveforms and stores it in a separate file. Each waveform is
an array of amplitudes (GeV) as a function of time (ns) in 500 ns time
window. Pileup level and signal amplitude need to be defined in the
code.

Files

data/waveform_signal_10GeV_pu_0.root 
data/waveform_signal_10GeV_eta_0.0_pu_140.root

were produced with this example. It is a set of 100 waveforms for
a signal of 10 GeV and PU=0 and PU=140 respectively.


Example03
---------

Plots one waveform created in Example02


Example04
---------

Creates DIGIs: samples of amplitude with noise.
Noise is correlated.

Files

data/samples_signal_10GeV_pu_0.root 
data/samples_signal_10GeV_eta_0.0_pu_140.root

were created from

data/waveforms_signal_10GeV_pu_0.root 
data/waveforms_signal_10GeV_eta_0.0_pu_140.root

with average noise of 44 MeV and correlation matrix for CRRC 43ns



Example05
---------

Fit one event with a pulse shape and plot it
Compare reconstructed amplitude with MC truth.
Timing is also reconstructed.
Errors on amplitude and timing are estimated using RMS of histograms


Example06
---------

Multifit reconstruction
One need to make sure that Eigen is installed
To compile:
> g++ -o Example06 Example06.cc PulseChiSqSNNLS.cc -std=c++11 `root-config --cflags --glibs`
To run
> ./Example06 


Example07
---------

Same exercise as in Example05 except errors on amplitude and timing are estimated using effective sigma: shortest interval that covers 68%. The advantages of this approach:
- no need to use histograms
- works for non-Gaussian distributions

TreeReader
----------

Generates the waveform histograms from the ouput tree of Example02. By default just uses "output.root", but you can specify the file name at the command line
To run:
> root -l -q TreeReader.C

plot_energy.py
----------
Accepts a series of root files to be read.
Input Files are generated by Example07.multifit.cc
Returns energy distribution histograms for each input file and a histogram ploting RMS of these histograms vs. the various tunable parameters:
[NSAMPLE, NFREQ, Amplitude, Pileup]
Examples:
- With one root file
>   $ python plot_energy.py output_file1.root
- With many root files (you can pass it as many as you want)
>   $ python plot_energy.py output_file1.root output_file2.root output_file2.root
- With many root files, using an asterisk to select them
>   $ python plot_energy.py "output_file*.root"
>   $ python plot_energy.py "output_file*.root" new_data1.root
>   $ python plot_energy.py "output_file*.root" "new_data*.root"
- A useful selection where all parameters are fixed except one
>   $ python plot_energy.py "output_10_25.00_10.00_*.root"
>   $ python plot_energy.py "output_10_25.00_*_20.00.root"
    
IMPORTANT: When selecting files using the wildcard '*', the filename must be surrounded with quotes "" as a string, to protect the wildcard from being interpreted by the shell. When passing files one at a time with their full names, using quotes or not doesn't matter.
